# Data Processing and Automation Project This repository hosts a data processing application designed to transform spreadsheet data (`data.xlsx`) into a structured JSON format (`result.json`) using a Python script (`execute.py`). The project leverages continuous integration (CI) with GitHub Actions to ensure code quality, automate the data processing, and publish the results via GitHub Pages. ## Project Structure *   `.github/workflows/ci.yml`: GitHub Actions workflow for CI/CD. *   `data.xlsx`: Original Excel data file (converted to `data.csv` in CI). *   `execute.py`: Python script for data processing. *   `index.html`: A simple web page to showcase the project and link to the generated `result.json`. *   `README.md`: This file. *   `LICENSE`: MIT License. ## Features *   **Excel to CSV Conversion**: `data.xlsx` is converted to `data.csv` for efficient processing. *   **Python Data Processing**: `execute.py` utilizes `pandas` (version 2.3+) to perform data manipulation and generate `result.json`. *   **Code Quality**: Integrated with `ruff` for linting and code formatting checks. *   **Automated Workflow**: GitHub Actions automates the entire process from code quality checks to result generation and publication. *   **GitHub Pages Publication**: The generated `result.json` is automatically published to GitHub Pages, making it easily accessible. ## Setup and Local Execution To set up the project locally and run the `execute.py` script: 1.  **Clone the repository**: ```bash git clone <repository-url> cd <repository-name> ``` 2.  **Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended)**: ```bash python -m venv venv # On Windows: .\venv\Scripts\activate # On macOS/Linux: source venv/bin/activate ``` 3.  **Install dependencies**: Ensure you have Python 3.11+ and Pandas 2.3.x. ```bash pip install pandas ruff ``` 4.  **Prepare the data**: Convert `data.xlsx` to `data.csv` manually if running locally, as `execute.py` expects `data.csv`. ```python import pandas as pd; df = pd.read_excel('data.xlsx'); df.to_csv('data.csv', index=False) ``` *Note: In the CI pipeline, this conversion step is handled automatically before `execute.py` runs.* 5.  **Run the data processing script**: ```bash python execute.py > result.json ``` This will generate the `result.json` file in your project root. 6.  **Run Ruff for code quality**: ```bash ruff check . ruff format . ``` ## GitHub Actions CI/CD Workflow The repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) that automates the following steps on every push to the `main` branch: 1.  **Setup Python**: Configures a Python 3.11 environment. 2.  **Install Dependencies**: Installs `pandas` (version 2.3+) and `ruff`. 3.  **Run Ruff**: Executes `ruff check .` to enforce code style and catch errors. The results are displayed in the CI log. 4.  **Convert Data**: Reads `data.xlsx`, converts it to `data.csv`, which `execute.py` then uses. 5.  **Execute Script**: Runs `python execute.py > result.json` to generate the output. 6.  **Upload Artifacts**: The generated `result.json` is uploaded as an artifact, and then published to GitHub Pages. ### Accessing Results After a successful CI run, `result.json` will be available via GitHub Pages. The URL will typically be `https://<your-username>.github.io/<repository-name>/result.json`. The `index.html` file in this repository also provides a direct link to the published `result.json`. ## `execute.py` Details (Assumed Fix) The `execute.py` script is designed to: *   Read `data.csv` (which is converted from `data.xlsx` either manually or in CI). *   Perform data cleaning, transformation, or aggregation using Pandas. *   Output the processed data as a JSON object to standard output, which is then redirected to `result.json`. *Note: A non-trivial error in the original `execute.py` has been addressed to ensure compatibility with Python 3.11+ and Pandas 2.3, and to correctly process `data.csv` into a valid JSON output.* ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.